# Technology Description

## Implementation Language 
+ **Java**: For our implementation language we selected Java. Java's reusability allows you to write the code once and then use it across many platforms without altering the code. Our team opted for Java as all our members have worked in it and our very familiar with the language. Creating one less obstacle and letting us lean more into factions that we are less familiar with. 

## Implementation Framework
+ **JavaFX**: For our desktop framework we selected JavaFX. It is a versatile framework for building desktop applications, offering modern UI features with rich graphics, and cross-platform compatibility. Its use of FXML for UI design, the Scene Builder tool, and a wide range of controls simplifies development. Why much of our team is unfamiliar with this GUI aspect we believe that a well-produced product can be attained through JavaFX.

## Storage Plan:
+ **SQL**: We have selected SQL as our database system to store data generated by our application. Members of our team are familiar with SQL and its functions making it the most practical choice.

## Operating Enviorments
+ **Cross-Platform**: Our application is designed to run across multiple operating systems such as Linux, MacOS, and Windows.

## Additional Software
+ **Marvel**: For our UI design we will use Marvel to produce a high-fidelity mockup of your application. Marvel works for both web and desktop design and allows us to render a prototype of our final product.
+ **YouTrack**: We will use YouTrack to develop a timeline for our project along with a Gantt chart to envision the steps of that timeline
